[dev-1.31] KEP-3619: Fine-grained SupplementalGroups control (#46920)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context.md

will be root(0). Any files created will also be owned by user 1000 and group 3000 when `runAsGroup` is specified.
Since `fsGroup` field is specified, all processes of the container are also part of the supplementary group ID 2000.
The owner for volume `/data/demo` and any files created in that volume will be Group ID 2000.

> Additionally, since `supplementalGroups` field is specified, all processes of the container are also part of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, when the `supplementalGroups` field is specified, all processes of the container are also part of the
```

> specified group IDs. If this field is omitted, it means empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified groups. If this field is omitted, it means empty.
```

The output is similar to this:

```none
uid=1000 gid=3000 groups=2000,3000,4000
```

From the output, you can see that `gid` is 3000 which is same as the `runAsGroup` field.
If the `runAsGroup` was omitted, the `gid` would remain as 0 (root) and the process will
be able to interact with files that are owned by the root(0) group and groups that have

> the required group permissions for the root (0) group. You can also see `groups`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the required group permissions for the root (0) group. You can also see that `groups`
```

> contains the group IDs which are specified by `fsGroup` and `supplementalGroups` other
> than `gid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains the group IDs which are specified by `fsGroup` and `supplementalGroups`,
in addition to `gid`.
```

Exit your shell:

```shell
exit
```

### Implicit group memberships defined in `/etc/group` in the container image

By default, kubernetes merges group information from the Pod with information defined in `/etc/group` in the container image.

{{% code_sample file="pods/security/security-context-5.yaml" %}}

> In this configuration, it just specifies `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup` and `supplementalGroups`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Pod security context contains `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup` and `supplementalGroups`.
```

However, you can see that the actual supplementary groups attached to the container process
will include group IDs which come from `/etc/group` in the container image.

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/security/security-context-5.yaml
```

Verify that the Pod's Container is running:

```shell
kubectl get pod security-context-demo
```

Get a shell to the running Container:

```shell
kubectl exec -it security-context-demo -- sh
```

Check the process identity:

```shell
$ id
```

The output is similar to this:

```none
uid=1000 gid=3000 groups=3000,4000,50000
```

> You can see `groups` includes group ID `50000`. This is because the user (`uid=1000`), which is defined in the image, belongs to the group (`gid=50000`), which is defined in `/etc/group` inside the container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that `groups` includes group ID `50000`. This is because the user (`uid=1000`),
which is defined in the image, belongs to the group (`gid=50000`), which is defined in `/etc/group`
inside the container image.
```

Check the `/etc/group` in the container image:

```shell
$ cat /etc/group
```

You can see that uid `1000` belongs to group `50000`.

```none
...
user-defined-in-image:x:1000:
group-defined-in-image:x:50000:user-defined-in-image
```

Exit your shell:

```shell
exit
```

{{<note>}}

> Implicitly _merged_ supplementary groups may cause security concerns particularly in accessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Implicitly merged_ supplementary groups may cause security problems particularly when accessing
```

the volumes (see [kubernetes/kubernetes#112879](https://issue.k8s.io/112879) for details).
If you want to avoid this. Please see the below section.
{{</note>}}

## Configure fine-grained SupplementalGroups control for a Pod {#supplementalgroupspolicy}

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="SupplementalGroupsPolicy" >}}

This feature can be enabled by setting the `SupplementalGroupsPolicy`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for kubelet and
kube-apiserver, and setting the `.spec.securityContext.supplementalGroupsPolicy` field for a pod.

> **supplementalGroupsPolicy** - `supplementalGroupsPolicy` defines behavior for calculating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `supplementalGroupsPolicy` field defines the policy for calculating the
```

> supplementary groups for the container processes in a pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supplementary groups for the container processes in a pod. There are two valid
values for this field:
```

> * _Merge_: The group membership defined in `/etc/group` for the container's primary user will be merged. If not specified, this policy will be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Merge`: The group membership defined in `/etc/group` for the container's primary user will be merged.
  This is the default policy if not specified.
```

> * _Strict_: it only attaches group IDs in `fsGroup`, `supplementalGroups`, or `runAsGroup` fields as the supplementary groups of the container processess. This means no group membership defined in `/etc/group` for the container's primary user will be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Strict`: Only group IDs in `fsGroup`, `supplementalGroups`, or `runAsGroup` fields 
  are attached as the supplementary groups of the container processes.
  This means no group membership from `/etc/group` for the container's primary user will be merged.
```

> When the feature is enabled, it also exposes the process identity attached to the first container process of the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the feature is enabled, it also exposes the process identity attached to the first container process
```

> in `.status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field. It would be helpful to detect if implicit group ID's are attached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in `.status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field. It would be useful for detecting if
implicit group ID's are attached.
```

{{% code_sample file="pods/security/security-context-6.yaml" %}}

> This pod manifest defines `supplementalGroupsPolicy=Strict`. You can see no group membership defined in `/etc/group` will be merged to the supplementary groups for container processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pod manifest defines `supplementalGroupsPolicy=Strict`. You can see that no group memberships
defined in `/etc/group` are merged to the supplementary groups for container processes.
```

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/security/security-context-6.yaml
```

Verify that the Pod's Container is running:

```shell
kubectl get pod security-context-demo
```

Check the process identity:

```shell
kubectl exec -it security-context-demo -- id
```

The output is similar to this:

```none
uid=1000 gid=3000 groups=3000,4000
```

See the Pod's status:

```shell
kubectl get pod security-context-demo -o yaml
```

> You can see `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field exposes the process identitiy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field exposes the process identitiy
```

attached to the first container process.

```none
...
status:
  containerStatuses:
  - name: sec-ctx-demo
    user:
      linux:
        gid: 3000
        supplementalGroups:
        - 3000
        - 4000
        uid: 1000
...
```

{{<note>}}

> Please note that the values in `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field is _the firstly attached_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the values in the `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field is _the first attached_
```

process identity to the first container process in the container. If the container has sufficient privilege

> to call system calls related to process identity (e.g. [`setuid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html), [`setgid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html) or [`setgroups(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgroups.2.html), etc.),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to make system calls related to process identity
(e.g. [`setuid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html),
[`setgid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html) or
[`setgroups(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgroups.2.html), etc.),
```

the container process can change its identity. Thus, the _actual_ process identity will be dynamic.
{{</note>}}

### Implementations {#implementations-supplementalgroupspolicy}

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

The following container runtimes are known to support fine-grained SupplementalGroups control.

CRI-level:
- [containerd](https://containerd.io/), since v2.0
- [CRI-O](https://cri-o.io/), since v1.31

> You can see if the feature is supported in the node status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see if the feature is supported in the Node status.
```

The output is similar to this:

```none
uid=1000 gid=3000 groups=2000,3000,4000
```

From the output, you can see that `gid` is 3000 which is same as the `runAsGroup` field.
If the `runAsGroup` was omitted, the `gid` would remain as 0 (root) and the process will
be able to interact with files that are owned by the root(0) group and groups that have
the required group permissions for the root (0) group. You can also see `groups`
contains the group IDs which are specified by `fsGroup` and `supplementalGroups` other
than `gid`.

Exit your shell:

```shell
exit
```

### Implicit group memberships defined in `/etc/group` in the container image

> By default, kubernetes merges group information for the container's primary user defined in

Reviewer 2: Maybe clearer (since "merges" suggests two things will be listed:

"""
By default, kubernetes merges group information from the Pod with information defined in `/etc/group` in the container image.
"""

Author: fixed in edd8ab30be

`/etc/group` in the container image.

{{% code_sample file="pods/security/security-context-5.yaml" %}}

In this configuration, it just specifies `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup` and `supplementalGroups`.
However, you can see that the actual supplementary groups attached to the container process
will include group IDs which come from `/etc/group` in the container image.

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/security/security-context-5.yaml
```

Verify that the Pod's Container is running:

```shell
kubectl get pod security-context-demo
```

Get a shell to the running Container:

```shell
kubectl exec -it security-context-demo -- sh
```

Check the process identity:

```shell
$ id
```

The output is similar to this:

```none

> uid=1000(user-defined-in-image) gid=3000 groups=3000,4000,50000(group-defined-in-image)

Reviewer 2: putting the parentheticals here is confusing - this is not real output.

Author: fixed in edd8ab30be

```

> You can see `groups` includes group ID `50000`. This is because the user (`uid=1000(user-defined-in-image)`)

Reviewer 2: ```
You can see `groups` includes group ID `50000`. This is because the user (`uid=1000`), which is defined in the image, belongs to the group (`gid=50000`), which is defined in `/etc/group` inside the container image.

Author: fixed in edd8ab30be

belongs to the group `group-defined-in-image(gid=50000)` which is defined in `/etc/group` in the container image.

Check the `/etc/group` in the container image:

```shell
$ cat /etc/group
```

> You can see the group entry that `user-defined-in-image(uid=1000)` belongs to `group-defined-in-image(gid=50000)`.

Reviewer 2: ```
You can see that uid 1000 belongs to group 50000.
```

Author: fixed in edd8ab30be

```shell
kubectl get pod security-context-demo -o yaml
```

You can see `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field exposes the process identitiy
attached to the first container process.

```none
...
status:
  containerStatuses:
  - name: sec-ctx-demo
    user:
      linux:
        gid: 3000
        supplementalGroups:
        - 3000
        - 4000
        uid: 1000
...
```

{{<note>}}
Please note that the values in `status.containerStatuses[].user.linux` field is _the firstly attached_
process identity to the first container process in the container. If the container has sufficient privilege
to call system calls related to process identity (e.g. [`setuid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html), [`setgid(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html) or [`setgroups(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgroups.2.html), etc.),
the container process can change its identity. Thus, the _actual_ process identity will be dynamic.
{{</note>}}

### Implementations {#implementations-supplementalgroupspolicy}

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

The following container runtimes are known to support fine-grained SupplementalGroups control.

CRI-level:

> - [containerd](https://containerd.io/), since v2.0

Author: This line depends on https://github.com/containerd/containerd/pull/10410 (in review)

Reviewer 3: I'll keep an eye on the unmerged PR. Hopefully it gets merged in no time.

Author: The https://github.com/containerd/containerd/pull/10410 was merged.

- [CRI-O](https://cri-o.io/), since v1.31

You can see if the feature is supported in the node status.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Node
...
status:
  features:
    supplementalGroupsPolicy: true
```

> 

Author: This part depends on https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/125470

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the information. I'll make a note of it.
